README.md, before:

# BeerAPI

## Description

[![MIT License](https://img.shields.io/badge/License-MIT-yellow.svg)](https://opensource.org/licenses/MIT)

An API implementation of CRUD operations using C#.

## Table of Contents

- [Overview](#overview)
- [Technologies Used](#technologies-used)
- [Usage](#usage)
- [Installation](#installation)
- [License](#license)
- [User Story](#user-story)
- [Progress](#progress)
- [Screenshots](#screenshots)
- [Issues](#issues)
- [Author](#author)
  
## Overview

This API application was designed to return info on Beer objects in a database. It was created using C# and .NET Core. The application uses a Model-View-Controller (MVC) structure. The application can be tested using Postman or Insomnia.mmm

Recently the application had FluentValidation added to it to validate the incoming data. This was done to ensure that the data being sent to the database is valid and to prevent any errors.
Also, Dependency Injection was added, by registering the `BeerValidator` so that it is automatically used by ASP.NET Core to validate the `Beer` object when it is passed to the `CreateBeer` method.

## Technologies Used

  - C#
  - .NET Core
  - ASP.NET Core
  - Visual Studio Code
  - Git
  - Insomnia 

## Usage

This Application is not designed to work with a front-end. The backend is designed to be tested using Insomnia or Postman.

![Insomnia Screenshot](<Screenshot 2024-02-15 at 10.39.05 am.png>)

The API routes are as below.
Please make sure to add to your usual server url.

```
http://localhost:5244/
```

### Routes

```
GET ..api/beers/{id} - returns the beer with the specified {id}
POST ../api/beers - creates a user by providing Name, Price, and PromoPrice (optional)
PUT ../api/api/beers/{id}/promo-price - updates a beer promo price by specifying their id
DELETE ..api/beers/{id} - deletes a beer by specifying their id
```


## Installation

1. Clone the Repository from [GitHub](https://github.com/AussieKing/BeerAPI.git) by using the Git Clone command.
2. Open the cloned repository in your code editor of choice (I used VS Code).
3. Open the integrated terminal and run the following command to install the dependencies:

``` bash
dotnet build
dotnet watch run
```

4. If you're on Mac, also run the following in the terminal (from the root directory)

```bash
dotnet dev-certs https --trust 
```

5. Use Insomnia to test the api routes.


## License

This application is covered under the MIT license. Please refer to the document titled [LICENSE](LICENSE).


## USER STORY
You are a developer in our e-commerce team. We are tasked to build the Shopping Trolley
feature. The requirements given as a user stories as below.
Your task is to design and develop this feature. 
You have the freedom to do it anyway you want and demonstrate, show us your strengths. 
Few suggestions are:

a. Build one or more libraries or services
b. Build one or more APIs / services
c. Choose an appropriate hosting environment - this can be just running in your favorite IDE, containers in your local machines or hosted in your favourite cloud environment
d. Optionally build a single page app or a web front end
e. Optionally deploy your application with build pipelines
f. Optionally build dashboards to monitor your services and application
	
Like true agile teams, we prioritise and build our features in small iterations. 
The user stories build up to provide richer experience with each adding some enhancements.

We care a lot about clean design, clean code, good tests and continuous delivery practices.
Demonstrate your strengths in these aspects.

#### Trolley Use Cases:
User Story 1:
As a customer I want to add / remove items to the trolley so that I can purchase the drinks
want.

#### Acceptance Criteria:
1	. Customers can add the same item more than once. For MVP, there is no upper limit on the number of items or quantity they add [x]

2	. When customer adds an item to the trolley, they can see the count of items incremented. [x] --> `AddItem` does this
	a. Given customer has no item in the trolley 
	b. When they add the first item
	c. Then the trolley count shows 1 [x] --> `AddItemToTrolley` in `TrolleyController` does this
 
3	. When Customer removes item from the trolley, the count of items is decremented [x] --> `RemoveItem` does this
	a. Given customer has 1 item in the trolley
	b. When they remove that item from the trolley
	c. Then the trolley count shows [x] --> `PrintTrolleyState` does this


## PROGRESS
- CRUD operations now work successfully: I can now create, update, read and delete new Beer items, as well as TrolleyItems. 
This can now be done directly in a Database, rather than in-memory data like previously.

## SCREENSHOTS
### GET
  	GET Trolley (empty) in Swagger
<img width="733" alt="trolley" src="https://github.com/AussieKing/BeerAPI/assets/126050763/c77d68c6-44fe-4ef6-9a19-13a390d1b2c8">

  	GET Trolley (empty) in DB Browser
<img width="534" alt="DbBr-GET" src="https://github.com/AussieKing/BeerAPI/assets/126050763/512d97fc-08a0-4300-a850-f3e0ee04a180">

### POST
	POST Item to Trolley in Swagger
<img width="817" alt="POST to trolley" src="https://github.com/AussieKing/BeerAPI/assets/126050763/4d7cd06d-9820-4868-b17b-bc1e145dd7ca">

	POST Item to Trolley in DB Browswer
<img width="490" alt="add beer to trolley" src="https://github.com/AussieKing/BeerAPI/assets/126050763/1cf5e17d-4693-487c-889d-4e71902d8569">

	GET Trolley in DB  Browser and Swagger with new Items
<img width="517" alt="get new trolley" src="https://github.com/AussieKing/BeerAPI/assets/126050763/8b64f91e-2bfe-4ee4-b87a-384b6f0c2f5c">
<img width="745" alt="get swagger" src="https://github.com/AussieKing/BeerAPI/assets/126050763/6b809de5-191d-4709-b180-8b462c1f0a3c">

### DELETE
	DELETE Item from Trolley in Swagger
<img width="770" alt="swagger delete" src="https://github.com/AussieKing/BeerAPI/assets/126050763/6ec90987-e23d-48c9-a610-7eef129d6a0e">

	DELETE Item from Trolley in DB Browser
<img width="505" alt="delete DBB" src="https://github.com/AussieKing/BeerAPI/assets/126050763/47e80064-1de0-4300-a841-c31c0ac507bf">

### CRUD operations for Beer Items in DB Browser
	CREATE New Beer Iteam in DB Browser
<img width="526" alt="So's sour" src="https://github.com/AussieKing/BeerAPI/assets/126050763/fe044161-fa23-4e57-be8d-1cdb1c305571">
<img width="146" alt="So's sour-select" src="https://github.com/AussieKing/BeerAPI/assets/126050763/3c45f6c2-ecc8-49b8-b657-07f9486c8954">

	UPDATE Beer Item in DB Browser
<img width="462" alt="so's sour-update" src="https://github.com/AussieKing/BeerAPI/assets/126050763/4a884161-a98f-42ba-b299-f770f1c68939">
<img width="229" alt="so's updated" src="https://github.com/AussieKing/BeerAPI/assets/126050763/6ee1929e-49a9-4e66-89a8-3cd248cd4df0">

	DELETE a Beer Item in DB Browser
<img width="294" alt="so's deleted" src="https://github.com/AussieKing/BeerAPI/assets/126050763/f9f2a725-0f96-4ee5-87b3-bebbd0055955">
<img width="227" alt="so's gone" src="https://github.com/AussieKing/BeerAPI/assets/126050763/c9935720-86f8-4db8-b16d-28233c952e69">

	
## ISSUES
- Issue 1: when deleting Beer, it lets me go in negative. TODO: stop at 0.
![image](https://github.com/AussieKing/BeerAPI/assets/126050763/b7faf5c8-7fcb-4246-93c4-6034f83b1e2d)

### DEV SECTION 

#### TODO:
- Practice using LocalDb (ideally SQL Server, but I don't have access yet), which is a file based compact version of SQL Server.
- Correct Issue 1 above for negative numbers in db.

#### PSEUDO CODING


#### STEPS TAKEN SO FAR
1. Installed NuGet package SQLite: `dotnet add package Microsoft.Data.Sqlite
dotnet add package Dapper`
2. Connection string in appsettings.json (database in output directory)
3. Create + Initalize db : create new folder (Data) with a dedicated Class (`DatabaseSetup.cs`) to initialise the db. Then go through usual steps (check for db file existance, create tables, etc)
4. Create Repository classes (to bridge the app logic and the db access), use Repo interface for specific db operations. Then implement the interface in a class with Dapper (to execute SQL on the SqLite db), and finally place this in the Repositories folder (inisde the Data directory)
5. Integrate the db operations in the app: change the service classes to use the db instead of the in app memory (inject Repository into the Service)
6. Registered Database as Singleton, 

## Author

This application was written and developed by Freddy Dordoni.

Commit message:

Transitioned BeerAPI from SQLite to SQL Server. Refactored DatabaseSetup to use ApplicationDbContext. Updated ConnectionStrings in appsettings.json and connectionString in Program.cs for SQL Server. Registered DbContext and changed registering of connections. Introduced ApplicationDbContext.cs. Created BeerRepository.cs to handle db operations for Beer model and IBeerRepository.cs interface. Modified BeerService to use IBeerRepository instead of SQLite connection string and updated methods accordingly. Updated TrolleyRepository to use ApplicationDbContext. Registered BeerRepository in Program.cs. Refactored DatabaseSetup to use ApplicationDbContext. Refactored all tests to migrate from Dapper/SQLite to Entity Framework Core. Verified basic CRUD operations using TestController and ensured Swagger UI starts successfully.

README.md, after:

# BeerAPI

## Description

[![MIT License](https://img.shields.io/badge/License-MIT-yellow.svg)](https://opensource.org/licenses/MIT)

An API implementation of CRUD operations using C#.

## Table of Contents

- [Overview](#overview)
- [Technologies Used](#technologies-used)
- [Usage](#usage)
- [Installation](#installation)
- [License](#license)
- [User Story](#user-story)
- [Progress](#progress)
- [Screenshots](#screenshots)
- [Issues](#issues)
- [Author](#author)
  
## Overview

This API application was designed to return info on Beer objects in a database. It was created using C# and .NET Core. The application uses a Model-View-Controller (MVC) structure. The application can be tested using Postman or Insomnia.mmm

Recently the application had FluentValidation added to it to validate the incoming data. This was done to ensure that the data being sent to the database is valid and to prevent any errors.
Also, Dependency Injection was added, by registering the `BeerValidator` so that it is automatically used by ASP.NET Core to validate the `Beer` object when it is passed to the `CreateBeer` method.

## Technologies Used

  - C#
  - .NET Core
  - ASP.NET Core
  - Visual Studio Code
  - Git
  - Insomnia 

## Usage

This Application is not designed to work with a front-end. The backend is designed to be tested using Insomnia or Postman.

![Insomnia Screenshot](<Screenshot 2024-02-15 at 10.39.05 am.png>)

The API routes are as below.
Please make sure to add to your usual server url.

```
http://localhost:5244/
```

### Routes

```
GET ..api/beers/{id} - returns the beer with the specified {id}
POST ../api/beers - creates a user by providing Name, Price, and PromoPrice (optional)
PUT ../api/api/beers/{id}/promo-price - updates a beer promo price by specifying their id
DELETE ..api/beers/{id} - deletes a beer by specifying their id
```


## Installation

1. Clone the Repository from [GitHub](https://github.com/AussieKing/BeerAPI.git) by using the Git Clone command.
2. Open the cloned repository in your code editor of choice (I used VS Code).
3. Open the integrated terminal and run the following command to install the dependencies:

``` bash
dotnet build
dotnet watch run
```

4. If you're on Mac, also run the following in the terminal (from the root directory)

```bash
dotnet dev-certs https --trust 
```

5. Use Insomnia to test the api routes.


## License

This application is covered under the MIT license. Please refer to the document titled [LICENSE](LICENSE).


## USER STORY
You are a developer in our e-commerce team. We are tasked to build the Shopping Trolley
feature. The requirements given as a user stories as below.
Your task is to design and develop this feature. 
You have the freedom to do it anyway you want and demonstrate, show us your strengths. 
Few suggestions are:

a. Build one or more libraries or services
b. Build one or more APIs / services
c. Choose an appropriate hosting environment - this can be just running in your favorite IDE, containers in your local machines or hosted in your favourite cloud environment
d. Optionally build a single page app or a web front end
e. Optionally deploy your application with build pipelines
f. Optionally build dashboards to monitor your services and application
	
Like true agile teams, we prioritise and build our features in small iterations. 
The user stories build up to provide richer experience with each adding some enhancements.

We care a lot about clean design, clean code, good tests and continuous delivery practices.
Demonstrate your strengths in these aspects.

#### Trolley Use Cases:
User Story 1:
As a customer I want to add / remove items to the trolley so that I can purchase the drinks
want.

#### Acceptance Criteria:
1	. Customers can add the same item more than once. For MVP, there is no upper limit on the number of items or quantity they add [x]

2	. When customer adds an item to the trolley, they can see the count of items incremented. [x] --> `AddItem` does this
	a. Given customer has no item in the trolley 
	b. When they add the first item
	c. Then the trolley count shows 1 [x] --> `AddItemToTrolley` in `TrolleyController` does this
 
3	. When Customer removes item from the trolley, the count of items is decremented [x] --> `RemoveItem` does this
	a. Given customer has 1 item in the trolley
	b. When they remove that item from the trolley
	c. Then the trolley count shows [x] --> `PrintTrolleyState` does this


## PROGRESS
- CRUD operations now work successfully: I can now create, update, read and delete new Beer items, as well as TrolleyItems. 
This can now be done directly in a Database, rather than in-memory data like previously.

## SCREENSHOTS
### GET
  	GET Trolley (empty) in Swagger
<img width="733" alt="trolley" src="https://github.com/AussieKing/BeerAPI/assets/126050763/c77d68c6-44fe-4ef6-9a19-13a390d1b2c8">

  	GET Trolley (empty) in DB Browser
<img width="534" alt="DbBr-GET" src="https://github.com/AussieKing/BeerAPI/assets/126050763/512d97fc-08a0-4300-a850-f3e0ee04a180">

### POST
	POST Item to Trolley in Swagger
<img width="817" alt="POST to trolley" src="https://github.com/AussieKing/BeerAPI/assets/126050763/4d7cd06d-9820-4868-b17b-bc1e145dd7ca">

	POST Item to Trolley in DB Browswer
<img width="490" alt="add beer to trolley" src="https://github.com/AussieKing/BeerAPI/assets/126050763/1cf5e17d-4693-487c-889d-4e71902d8569">

	GET Trolley in DB  Browser and Swagger with new Items
<img width="517" alt="get new trolley" src="https://github.com/AussieKing/BeerAPI/assets/126050763/8b64f91e-2bfe-4ee4-b87a-384b6f0c2f5c">
<img width="745" alt="get swagger" src="https://github.com/AussieKing/BeerAPI/assets/126050763/6b809de5-191d-4709-b180-8b462c1f0a3c">

### DELETE
	DELETE Item from Trolley in Swagger
<img width="770" alt="swagger delete" src="https://github.com/AussieKing/BeerAPI/assets/126050763/6ec90987-e23d-48c9-a610-7eef129d6a0e">

	DELETE Item from Trolley in DB Browser
<img width="505" alt="delete DBB" src="https://github.com/AussieKing/BeerAPI/assets/126050763/47e80064-1de0-4300-a841-c31c0ac507bf">

### CRUD operations for Beer Items in DB Browser
	CREATE New Beer Iteam in DB Browser
<img width="526" alt="So's sour" src="https://github.com/AussieKing/BeerAPI/assets/126050763/fe044161-fa23-4e57-be8d-1cdb1c305571">
<img width="146" alt="So's sour-select" src="https://github.com/AussieKing/BeerAPI/assets/126050763/3c45f6c2-ecc8-49b8-b657-07f9486c8954">

	UPDATE Beer Item in DB Browser
<img width="462" alt="so's sour-update" src="https://github.com/AussieKing/BeerAPI/assets/126050763/4a884161-a98f-42ba-b299-f770f1c68939">
<img width="229" alt="so's updated" src="https://github.com/AussieKing/BeerAPI/assets/126050763/6ee1929e-49a9-4e66-89a8-3cd248cd4df0">

	DELETE a Beer Item in DB Browser
<img width="294" alt="so's deleted" src="https://github.com/AussieKing/BeerAPI/assets/126050763/f9f2a725-0f96-4ee5-87b3-bebbd0055955">
<img width="227" alt="so's gone" src="https://github.com/AussieKing/BeerAPI/assets/126050763/c9935720-86f8-4db8-b16d-28233c952e69">

	
## ISSUES
- Issue 1: when deleting Beer, it lets me go in negative. TODO: stop at 0.
![image](https://github.com/AussieKing/BeerAPI/assets/126050763/b7faf5c8-7fcb-4246-93c4-6034f83b1e2d)
#### TODO:
- Practice using SQL Server
- Refactor code to use right connection string (been using SQLite, so the connection string is now different for SQL Server )
- 

### PSEUDO CODING

### DEV SECTION 

#### TODO:
- Practice using LocalDb (ideally SQL Server, but I don't have access yet), which is a file based compact version of SQL Server.
- Correct Issue 1 above for negative numbers in db.

#### PSEUDO CODING

### STEPS
1. To transition to SQL Server from SQLite:
- refactor `DatabaseSetup`
- update `ConnectionStrings` in appsettings.json
- update `connectionString` in Program.cs to use Entity Framework Core with SQL Server
- register `DbContext` 
- change the registering of connections
- introduce the `ApplicationDbContext.cs`
- create the `BeerRepository.cs` class to handle db operations for the `Beer` model, and the `IBeerRepository.cs` interface
- modify the `BeerService` to accept `IBeerRepository` instead of the connection string for DB Browser (SQ Lite) (changing methods required! make sure to match)
- update `TrolleyRepository` to accept `ApplicationDbContext` instead of the connection string for DB Browser (SQ Lite)
- register `BeerRepository` in Program.cs
- refactor `DatabaseSetup` to use `ApplicationDbContext`
- refactor all tests to migrate from Dapper/SQLite to Entity Framework Core

## Author

### PROGRESS
- CRUD operations now work successfully: I can now create, update, read and delete new Beer items, as well as TrolleyItems.
- Database can be queried properly: I can now perform CRUD operations using a database directly, rather than in-memory data like previously.- Database can be queried properly: I can now perform CRUD operations using a database directly, rather than in-memory data like previously.
